{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\froman\fprq0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f3\froman\fprq0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fnil\fprq0\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang1033\ai\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs20\langfe1033\ai\loch\f2\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
{\*\cs7\cf1\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f4\fs24\lang1033 RTF_Num 2 1;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\qc\rtlch\afs28\ab\ltrch\dbch\afs28\ab\loch\fs28\b {\ltrch\loch\f1 Calligrapher's Ruler}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\qc\rtlch\ab\ltrch\dbch\ab\loch\b {\ltrch\loch\f1 Corwyn Ravenwing}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\qc\rtlch\afs20\ab\ltrch\dbch\afs20\ab\loch\fs20\b 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs20\ltrch\dbch\afs20\loch\fs18 {\ltrch\loch\f1 \tab This is a reproduction of a lead ruler or "plummet marker", as described in "Scribes and Illuminators" (c.f.).  Such tools were used by scribes between the 12th and 14th centuries for making guide lines on manuscripts prior to calligraphing them.}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1{\b Method:}}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 \tab I carved a two-part mold out of soapstone and cast pewter in it.  I then trimmed and filed the resulting pewter ruler.}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1{\b Period Practice:}}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs20\ab\ltrch\dbch\afs20\ab\loch\fs18\b 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\ltrch\loch\fs18{\ltrch\loch\f1{{\b0\f1 \tab }{\ul Material}: The article says that the original was made of lead, but doesn't go into its purity (lead was often alloyed with bismuth, which was mistaken for lead in period, as well as with tin and/or antimony).}}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs20\ltrch\dbch\afs20\loch\fs18 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\ltrch\loch\fs18{\ltrch\loch\f1{{\b0\ulnone\f1 \tab }{\ul Method}: From looking at the photo of the original, I am convinced it was {\b cast} rather than, say, being hammered or carved, though I may be wrong.  I have no way of knowing for sure what sort of mold the original was cast in -- possibly stone, sand, or one 
of a number of other materials -- but I judged that the straight edge on the ruler would be hard to produce using sand casting (and that therefore neither I nor the original caster in period would want to try), and so I settled on soapstone for my mold. }}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs20\ltrch\dbch\afs20\loch\fs18 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1{\b Accuracy To and Divergence From Period Practice:}}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs20\ab\ltrch\dbch\afs20\ab\loch\fs18\b 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\ltrch\loch\fs18{\ltrch\loch\f1{{\b0\ulnone\f1 \tab }{\ul Things done Accurately}:}}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\li360\ri0\fi-360\rtlch\afs20\ltrch\dbch\afs20\loch\fs18 {\ltrch\loch\f1 I cut the soapstone slabs with a hand-saw and polished them with hand tools, with sand-paper, and against one another.}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 I carved the ruler shape into the mold by hand, as well as the sprue channel.}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 I poured the molten pewter by hand, with a small ladle.}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 I cut off the sprue and the flashing, and filed the ruler, all with hand tools.}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 I believe that the ruler is the correct size.  Its size closely matches the width of the pages in several period English books of hours that I saw once in a museum.}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs20\ltrch\dbch\afs20\loch\fs18 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\ltrch\loch\fs18{\ltrch\loch\f1{{\b0\ulnone\f1 \tab }{\ul Places Where I Diverged From Accuraccy}:}}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\li360\ri0\fi-360\rtlch\afs20\ltrch\dbch\afs20\loch\fs18 {\ltrch\loch\f1 After carving the ruler shape into the mold by hand, I polished it with a dremel tool.}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 I also used a dremel to carve the vine pattern into the mold.}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs20\ltrch\dbch\afs20\loch\fs18 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\ltrch\loch\fs18{\ltrch\loch\f1{{\b0\ulnone\f1 \tab }{\ul Changes Made On Purpose}:}}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\li360\ri0\fi-360\rtlch\afs20\ltrch\dbch\afs20\loch\fs18 {\ltrch\loch\f1 Rather than using pure lead or period lead pewter, I used modern lead-free pewter, a tin/antimony/copper alloy.  We like our scribes and don't want to give them lead poisoning, accurate or not.}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 The design on the face of the artifact is the name "ROGERU" (other excavated pieces not photographed bear other names).  Because I plan to offer these rulers for sale, I opted for a more generic vine pattern, which I feel is true to the spirit of the origi
nal (I personally find it hard to tell the difference from the photograph.  I felt putting the name on my version would be overly specific: how many people named Rogeru do you know who are calligraphers and accuracy enthusiasts?}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 The bottom edge of the artifact is clearly curved.  The top edge also appears to have a few slight curves.  How, then, was it to be used as a straightedge, if it doesn't have a straight edge?  My theory is that the top edge was indeed straight when the art
ifact was cast, but that being buried in the ground for five hundred years has not been kind to it, and has changed its shape slightly.  In keeping with this theory, I have given my reproduction as straight an edge as I was capable of.  I'm sure that if I 
buried it until the year 2500 it would look much more like the photograph.}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs20\ltrch\dbch\afs20\loch\fs18 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1{\b Future Plans:}}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 \tab Having received advice from a calligrapher and illuminator of note, I am planning to make a larger version of this ruler, since our scrolls tend to be larger than period manuscripts tended to be, and to be divided less often into two columns that could be
 ruled separately.}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 \tab Any comments or suggestions would be most appreciated.}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs20\ab\ltrch\dbch\afs20\ab\loch\fs18\b {\ltrch\loch\f1 Bibliography:}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs20\ltrch\dbch\afs20\loch\fs18 {\ltrch\loch\f1 \tab "Scribes and Illuminators", from the British Museum Press series on Medieval Craftsmen.  ISBN 0-7141-2049-9 Published 1992}
\par 
\par }