{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\froman\fprq0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f3\froman\fprq0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fnil\fprq0\fcharset2 Wingdings;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang1033\ai\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs20\langfe1033\ai\loch\f2\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\qc\rtlch\afs28\ab\ltrch\dbch\afs28\ab\loch\fs28\b {\ltrch\loch\f1 Cast Pewter Medallions}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\qc\rtlch\ab\ltrch\dbch\ab\loch\b {\ltrch\loch\f1 Corwyn Ravenwing}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\ltrch\loch\fs20 {\ltrch\loch\f1 \tab {This is a medallion consisting of a spider in her web, with a Silver Crescent Award (a crescent-and-crown device) on her belly.  It was cast in a hand-carved soapstone mold.}}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs22\ltrch\dbch\afs22\loch\fs20 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs22\ab\ltrch\dbch\afs22\ab\loch\fs20\b {\ltrch\loch\f1 Method:}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs22\ltrch\dbch\afs22\loch\fs20 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\ltrch\loch\fs20{\ltrch\loch\f1{{\b0\f1 \tab }{\ul Carving}.  I sawed a thin slab from a block of soapstone, and carved a circular impression into it using a compass (the circle-drawing kind, not the finding-north kind {\f4 J}), and then deepened and leveled the impression using wood-carving tools.  Next, I adde
d a loop to the top of the circle and a sprue to the bottom.  I took {\b [cast 1]} to show what the mold looked like at this time.}}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs22\ltrch\dbch\afs22\loch\fs20 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\ltrch\loch\fs20{\ltrch\loch\f1{{\b0\ulnone\f1 \tab Using the same hand tools, my lady Carowyn incised a spiderweb }{\b [cast 2]} and a spider {\b [cast 3]} into the mold.  We decided the spider wasn't big enough so she increased his size a bit {\b [cast 4]}.  Then on his belly she added the crescent and crown {\b [cast 5]}.}}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs22\ltrch\dbch\afs22\loch\fs20 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\ltrch\loch\fs20{\ltrch\loch\f1{{\b0\ulnone\f1 \tab }{\ul Casting}.  Using pewter melted in a cast-iron pot, and holding a slate back-plane to the mold (I've seen people use a spring-loaded clamp but I've found that just holding it with a thick leather glove works -- you get the same pressure, and you still don't
 burn yourself) I cast several copies of the medallion.  After it had cooled enough to be removed from the mold, I melted the sprue off by dipping the piece sprue-first back into the crucible.}}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs22\ltrch\dbch\afs22\loch\fs20 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\ltrch\loch\fs20{\ltrch\loch\f1{{\b0\ulnone\f1 \tab Then, using a pair of clippers, I trimmed off the rest of the sprue and the flashing, and then used flat, round, and triangular files to clean and polish it.  I also filed down the crescent and crown to make them stand out more clearly.  }{\b [cast 6]}}}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs22\ltrch\dbch\afs22\loch\fs20 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs22\ab\ltrch\dbch\afs22\ab\loch\fs20\b {\ltrch\loch\f1 Accuracy:}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs22\ltrch\dbch\afs22\loch\fs20 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 \tab I didn't set out on this project with the intention of being absolutely accurate, but when I was finished I noticed that I had used only period tools and methods with only a few exceptions.  For carving, I had used only hand tools, like the compass and wo
od-carving tools; for casting, I had melted my metal in a cast-iron pot, (although for safety it's actually Britannia metal rather than accurate pewter that would contain lead, and I did melt it on an electric hotplate rather than worrying about generating
 my heat in a period fashion).}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\ltrch\loch\fs20{\ltrch\loch\f1{{\b0\ulnone\f1 \tab To do the casting, I poured by hand with a steel ladle, and as I mentioned above I held the mold together with a leather glove rather than modern spring-powered clamps.  I even made my own soapstone slab with a hand-saw.  And all my finishing work was wit
h hand-held clippers and files.  The only thing I did that I know is inaccurate was that I smoothed the inside of the mold with sandpaper.  Surprisingly, I'm told sandpaper is post-period: in period they would have used }{\ul glass}-paper which acts, well, pretty
 much exactly the same, but I don't have any.}}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs22\ltrch\dbch\afs22\loch\fs20 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\ltrch\loch\fs20{\ltrch\loch\f1{{\b0\ulnone\f1 \tab Now, regarding the trick of melting the sprues off in the crucible.  I have absolutely no proof that they did this in period, but let me tell you something: for my previous project I sawed the sprues off with a jeweler's saw, and that actually took more t
ime to saw off each (!) sprue than it took to cast my entire run.  It saves so much time that I would frankly be shocked to learn that they }{\ul didn't} think of it in period, (especially because I did and this was my second casting project ever).  If anyone has
 any evidence one way or the other, I would appreciate hearing it.}}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs22\ltrch\dbch\afs22\loch\fs20 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs22\ab\ltrch\dbch\afs22\ab\loch\fs20\b {\ltrch\loch\f1 Future Plans:}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\afs22\ltrch\dbch\afs22\loch\fs20 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 \tab I'm thinking that the detail is still pretty hard to see, so I want to see what it looks like if I were to gild the surface of a medallion using the lead-to-gold process (but that's another story) and then file down the crescent and crown to increase the 
contrast: the background will be gold and only the details will be silver.}
\par }